\" Rectify man page
.if !\n(.g \{\
.   if !\w|\*(lq| \{\
.       ds lq ``
.       if \w'\(lq' .ds lq "\(lq
.   \}
.   if !\w|\*(rq| \{\
.       ds rq ''
.       if \w'\(rq' .ds rq "\(rq
.   \}
.\}
.de Id
.ds Dt \\$4
..
.Id $Id: rectify.1,v 1.00 2013/01/21 16:20:04 lester Exp $
.TH RECTIFY 1 \*(Dt "Lester Hedges"
.SH NAME
rectify \- converge towards a target image using a Monte Carlo algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rectify
.RI [ IMAGE ]
.br
.B rectify
.RI [ IMAGE ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B Rectify
is a command-line tool that uses a Monte Carlo (MC) algorithm to converge
towards a target image using a random sequence of rectangular brush strokes.
Images produced by
.B rectify
have a ghostly, impressionistic quality.
.PP
.B Rectify
works by repeatedly attempting to apply a randomly placed black or white brush
strokes of rectangular shape to a canvas. The stroke is blended with the
existing pixel block on the canvas and the change is accepted with a Boltzmann
weight that accounts for the difference in the absolute value of the pixel
block's distance from the target image following the trial move. The system is
coupled to a thermal bath which allows the user to control the probability of
accepting moves that take the image away from the target, thus allowing the rate
of convergence to be tuned.
.PP
.B Rectify
avoids unneccessary dependency on
.B zlib
and
.B libpng
by using
.B LodePNG
to decode and encode
.B PNG
images.
.B MersenneTwister
is used to provide high quality and efficient random numbers.
.PP
.B Rectify
must be passed at least one command-line argument, the path of a
.B PNG
.I IMAGE
file to be used as the target image. The image will automatically be converted
to grayscale if color is detected. When run,
.B rectify
will output a sequence of images showing the evolution of the canvas towards
the target image. In addition, the current acceptance rate is printed to
.B stdout
allowing the user to monitor the rate of convergence.
.PP
.B Rectify
is trivially parellelizable,
.B MPI
support will follow (allowing efficient processing of very large images).
.SH OPTIONS
.B
rectify
supports the following short- and long-form command-line options. Invoking
.B rectify
with no options will print a help message.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\^\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.BI \-i " INT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-iterations "INT
Where
.I INT
is an integer specifying the number of MC iterations.
.TP
.BI \-f " INT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-frames "INT
Where
.I INT
is an integer specifying the number of frames to be saved.
.TP
.BI \-s " DOUBLE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-stroke "DOUBLE
Set the maximum extent of the trial stroke, where
.I DOUBLE
indicates the stroke extent as a fraction of the target image width, e.g.
a value of 0.5 would set the maximum stroke extent (both width and height) to
half the width of the target image. The algorithm proceeds more slowly when
the maximum stroke width is large since, on average, more pixels must be
processed per trial move.
.TP
.BI \-c " IMAGE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-canvas "IMAGE
Start the algorithm using an existing canvas given by
.B PNG
.I IMAGE
file. The
.I IMAGE
must be the same size as the target otherwise
.B rectify will abort. If the
.I IMAGE
is full color it will be converted to grayscale before the algorithm starts.
This option can also be used to continue covergence from an existing rectify
project, e.g. if too few iterations were chosen.
.TP
.BI \-t " DOUBLE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-temperature "DOUBLE
Specify the temperature of the thermal bath. A higher temperature will mean
that more trial brush strokes are accepted. At zero temperature, only moves
that take the canvas closer to the target will be accepted (comparable to a
hill climbing algorithm). Temperature adds noise to the system and can be used
to tune the rate of convergence as well as the style of image produced.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\^\-log
Use logarithmic spacing for sampling points. This is useful when convergence
is very slow.
.TP
.BI \-d " DIRECTORY" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-directory "DIRECTORY
Specify a directory for the output files.
.I DIRECTORY
should be in the working directory and will be created if it doesn't already
exist.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\^\-monitor
Turn on acceptance monitoring. If set,
.B rectify
will monitor statistics for the acceptance rate and compute histograms for
accepted brush strokes. This is useful for determining what stroke sizes are
dominant as the canvas evolves. Trial stroke sizes can be tuned accordingly.
In
.B monitor
mode,
.B rectify
will produce three additional output files:
.BR log.txt
a log file of the acceptance rate at each sampling time
.BR hist.txt
the acceptance probability for each stroke size (width, height), and
.BR hist_xy.txt
a two-dimensional matrix of the histogram data.
.SH DEFAULTS
.PP
.B iterations
1000000
.PP
.B frames
1000
.PP
.B temperature
0.1
.PP
.B stroke
0.1
.PP
.B logarithmic
off
.PP
.B monitor
off
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flux (1)
.SH CREDITS
.PP
.BR LodePNG ,
.BR http://lodev.org/lodepng .
.PP
.BR MersenneTwister ,
.BR www.math.sci.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/~m-mat/MT/emt.html .
.PP
Anna, for the name.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Email bugs, comments, and artwork to
.BR lester.hedges+rectify@gmail.com .
